>> Ben Hong: So our fun little exercise,
this shouldn't take as long.
I'm going to push up my branch
to the 04 exercise branch.
And your task,
should you choose to accept it,
is to migrate everything from
the routes into file based routing.
So I kept this one a little bit on
the shorter side because, you know, again,
it's kind of like a fun thing
to kind of get used to and
I figured it's kind of easier for
you to play with on your own also.
So let's go ahead and just, let's.
Let's migrate the whole thing, shall we?
So when I'm doing the migration for
something like this, something actually,
the first thing I actually want to
emphasize here is actually that you
might notice that these two approaches
are actually coexisting right now.
There is the pages approach and
you technically have some
views being manually defined.
I do think this is a big philosophy
that I've always enjoyed about VUE and
kind of its community is that it doesn't
try to force you one way or the other and
it basically lets you, I mean to kind of
what we were talking about earlier in this
workshop kind of composes of
things that make sense to you.
Because I don't know if some of you
got to the challenges part, but
this not found doing
wildcards is a little bit.
It's actually.
You actually have to look in the docs for
this.
It's not incredibly intuitive.
I mean there is a world where some people
like, because this is just easier for
them to understand, they'll configure
some of their routes still manually
because maybe they also have some
custom things they want to do,
maybe programmatically that doesn't
fit the file based routing.
Because that's usually what I hear when
people criticize file based routing and
they're like, I have this one edge
case that doesn't apply to that.
It's like, that's cool.
But for 95% of the other things,
file based routing works great.
So this is my reminder to you that like,
while I'm going to migrate everything
over, you certainly don't have to.
And more importantly, should you need to
manually define your routes in the future,
it is really just a step away by just
adding something inside of this route
configuration.
Okay, so that said,
let's go ahead and move on.
Okay, first thing first, reflection.
I'll drop that one first.
So I'll move that over and
then I'll just call it reflection and
then we'll get rid of it
inside of the routes page.
Here.
Boom.
Save.
I think that's good.
So we're going to test it, though.
We always test our things.
All right, that's up.
We go to reflection.
Great, it's working.
All right, moving on.
Let's just do the sandbox
page because we can.
Yes.
Move.
And then we'll just rename that sandbox.
And then inside of our routes,
we delete the sandbox page here.
Check it.
Yep, there's our sandbox page.
Okay, keep going.
Let's do Settings next.
So drop that over there.
Settings.
Delete from here.
There we go.
And then let's click Settings.
Hey, there's our settings.
Everything still works great.
All right, now the coup de grace.
All right, so the planner section.
Let's take a look at how we
intended this to be routed.
So, the planner page itself looks
like it's just slash planner.
So one way we could do this.
So you saw that earlier for slash tasks,
I did, like an index under the folder.
This should work the way I think it does,
which is that you can
still just make this like.
Just Planner like this.
And so now that that's Planner,
we should be able to then come in.
Wait, I didn't delete the other record.
So now Planner should be here.
And there you go Planner and
renders as expected.
Okay, here is then the tricky part.
So now you have this week
as well as this ID here.
So we need to do.
Here is we need to do a folder for
week and then we create a.
Well, actually take the back.
I don't need to create.
I just need to drag week
detail page in here and
then swap out the name for
a square bracket id.
This should be.
Okay.
About to find out if I'm wrong.
Now that we have this,
let's just refresh it real quick.
And then we're going to
look at the week itself.
Up, page not found.
What happened?
Failed to resolve.
That shouldn't be the reason.
Let's debug this together.
Let's see.
We have it here.
>> Speaker 2: Don't we need to
put it in a planner folder or
something like that to match
the original way that it was?
>> Ben Hong: Yeah, you're totally right.
I got ahead of myself.
Let me undo this real quick.
I guess I thought I created.
I will tell you in my head,
I created a planner folder.
I clearly did not.
You are 100% right.
So that means week needs
to be nested under here.
There you go Planner Week id.
All right, now let's try this again.
Sorry.
Let me delete this.
All right, this is a fun little tidbit.
Okay, tip here.
So, you may have noticed we
have a lot of broken paths.
I don't know if you notice this
pattern I was using, the at symbol.
Are people familiar with this?
Okay, great.
For those who are not, this is something
that comes from the vite configuration and
it's actually an alias.
So this is not magic.
It's actually something you can configure.
And it basically says, hey, for these
paths, whenever you prefix it with at,
I want you to start from the root
directory and go straight into source.
And so this makes it a lot easier to deal
with moving things between directories,
because you know that everything is
always going to start at the source.
Although, granted,
I'm not sure why it's still yelling at me.
But one thing at a time.
Okay, now that that's done, let's refresh.
And then that did not work.
Planner is good week did not happen.
Okay, what's the problem here?
So, I assume this is
what you were mentioning.
So what I'm going to do now is we're going
to take a look at the typed router to see
what it's generating.
So, we see that there's Planner here.
Planner Planner here.
Planner week.
ID here.
Param id true.
Id param false.
So that seems like it's
sound to Planner Week.
And then this is also.
I assume this is Planner Week.
Let's find out.
H.
wait, why is this an H3?
This seems suspicious.
H3 card title.
I have a guess.
This is in our planner.
No weeks available.
That's not it this year.
Yeah.
Remember what I mentioned
about AI doing funny things?
This is the goToweek and
then it rather push.
Okay.
So yeah, it is pushing the weak ID and
that is causing it.
We are noticing, I think everyone knows
that it crashes on their end as well when
they get to this point.
>> Speaker 2: It works for me.
>> Ben Hong: It works for you.
So yeah, this is a smidge odd.
See what errors am I getting
new Planner Cardbody.
Is that why it's yelling at me?
No, you all should have the same code.
Did you also do it the same way where you
had the planner out here rather than like.
>> Speaker 2: No,
I have Planner as an index.
>> Ben Hong: As an index.
Okay, let's try this.
And perhaps this is a bug.
I was trying to be a little
cheeky by jumping ahead,
but that may have
ultimately been a mistake.
I'm going to go ahead and
update these real quick.
Okay, great.
Planner week.
Wow.
Really doesn't like it
this is why we debug live.
Okay, let me just fix this
icon thing then let's make
sure we remove all issues that we have.
So, where's it getting an icon?
Okay, got it.
But to be honest, at that point I'm
just going to import base icon.
If I'm going to solve this and
just do base icon and set of icon,
its name and then sure,
with height, whatever.
Okay, so now this.
Wait, what is this?
This does not like it.
Okay, you know what I'm
going to do though?
On the planner new planner body,
we're just going to delete this for now.
Okay, so now no errors, but for
some reason it still cannot find the page.
For those of you running into it,
I believe somewhere in the hot
module reloading something,
some wires got crossed.
So if you shut down your server, reboot
it, it's able to reconnect all the dots.
So I guess some people
didn't have that issue.
And then clearly I was able
to duplicate it by accident.
So yeah, so the good old turn it off and
on again saves the day.
All right, excellent.
So with that I think we're almost done
actually we just have one more thing and
that's this not found page.
And so I'm going to go ahead and
just so you all know because again I'm
never going to memorize this and
I don't expect any of you to ever.
So you know, we look for the docs.
That's what the docs are for.
We are going to search for
what they call this is like a catch all.
So you see here catchall
not found 404 route.
And so the way this works is you
actually do a behind the path.
So if you think about It From
a JavaScript perspective,
it is essentially a spread operator
saying whatever the heck the path is,
if you can match this at the very,
very end, then go to this thing.
And so in our case, so
if we look at our routes and
then I go ahead and
delete this last one, now it's reloaded.
If I go to my route and this time,
I'm going to say something funny,
nothing shows up.
This makes sense because
now there's no catch all.
So let's try this again.
Not found.
Move it in.
And again we want it to be.
So, if you think about a catch all,
again it's that asterisk concept.
It's a dynamic property path.
It's really what we're doing.
All right, it's reloaded, typed router
think, it already did it for me.
Hot module reloading.
And that's how you'll catch
any routes that haven't that
are unable to be matched.
And actually, I guess, you know,
if you want to talk about final reroute
route things, since we know for
a fact that, at least for now, again, I
can always recreate this whenever I want.
This is effectively empty
because at this point,
I don't foresee a world where I
need to manually configure a route.
So I can delete the routes file.
I can delete this import.
To be honest,
I don't mind calling it Auto Routes.
It's kind of explicit.
So this is fine.
But obviously if you want to just be even
more succinct, you can just do this.
This is fine.
That is a full refactor.
>> Speaker 3: You didn't have to
then update any if you've got router
pushes anywhere.
>> Ben Hong: Nope.
Isn't that so great?
>> Speaker 3: It's amazing.
>> Ben Hong: It's such a nice
developer experience for me.
Whenever I'm on a project without it,
I'm like, I have to type the object.
I got to type and
then I got to configure it.
Just makes it so
much more fun to just try stuff out.
And I feel like that's what
a lot of development is,
creating a faster feedback cycle so
that we can try more things.
The more feedback loops we have,
the more we can iterate and do cool.